The project we took was about developing a Sudoku game using what we had been taught in the course. Sudoku is a logic-based puzzle game that originated in Japan. It is played on a grid of 9 x 9 squares, divided into nine 3 x 3 sub-grids, or "boxes." The objective is to fill in the grid with the numbers 1 through 9 in such a way that each row, column, and box contains all of the numbers from 1 to 9, with no repeats.
To play Sudoku, you must use logic and problem-solving skills to deduce which numbers go in which squares. Each puzzle has a unique solution, and the difficulty of the puzzle depends on how many numbers are already filled in. The more numbers that are given to start with, the easier the puzzle is.
Sudoku has gained popularity around the world and is widely available in print and online. It is a popular activity for people of all ages and can be a fun way to improve logical thinking and problem-solving skills. The Data Structure we will be using to implement this are Hash Tables and arrays. The intuition is that hash tables will be used to store the values in each row, each column and each box which is a 3*3 sub grid. When generating a random board these hash tables will be used to ensure that the board being generated does not violate the rules of Sudoku and that the game is playable. The hash tables will also be used during the gameplay to ensure that whatever number the user inputs is correct and does not violate the game rules. Since the board is of fixed size a static array will be used to store the data for the board that will be used when the board is being displayed. To visualize this and to make the game more user friendly, we have decided to use a library called Qt to create a desktop application where the user can enter the place where they want to add their input simply through clicking the empty boxes on the screen.
